---
layout: book_review
title: "Powerful"
book_authors:
- Patty McCord
type: book_review
---

Patty McCord reasons that you should avoid giving your employees the impression
that your company is a family since it is a business and will have to act in its
interest. You hire adults, treat them as adults by giving them the tools and
information they need to perform amazing work.

## Hiring

You can gain an advantage over competitors by hiring better candidates more
efficiently. You will need to build this expertise within your company. Form an
internal team to head hunt for the roles your business needs.  Don't let your
managers work with external recruiters as this will block your head hunting team
from developing into the competitive advantage that you need them to be.

The most important job of management is to build great teams. Over time your
company, products and features will require different expertise than you
currently have. Let this future inform today's hiring decisions. You should be
confident that your hires can and want to achieve this future. Know when you
don't need a role any more and respectfully let that employee go if they do not
currently have the skills to succeed in another needed role.

You should know what roles within your company have the greatest potential to
boost performance. Be ready to pay top of market for these positions to attract
and retain the best people for these roles. When filling these positions you
often will have to hire externally for the necessary expertise.

Understand why a person wishes to join your company. You want people that want
to craft a delightful customer experience and who are passionate about your
product. If a candidate wants to think freely about cool ideas then Google would
be a better fit for that person.


## People

A leader's job is to create great teams that do great work. Remind people that
they walk in the door with power. As a leader, set up the conditions that allows
them to exercise that power.

### Well informed

Information should be widely distributed and expectations should be clear.
Employees at all levels can have valuable ideas and ask enlightening questions.
Never underestimate this. You should periodically probe employees of all levels
to measure how well they understand a concept that is important to your
business. Spend the necessary time with them to ensure they have the information
and opportunity to contribute their perspectives.

McCord calls out how we handicap our organizations by being "data driven". She
specifically is concerned that data can be collected and analyzed in ways that
support pre-drawn conclusions. Instead she recommends really thinking about the
data and the process of collecting the data and using the judgement of a diverse
set of employees to debate the correct interpretation of the data. Be ready to
re-debate issues when necessary. Be data informed and fact driven. 

### Managing

Focus your high performers on the areas of business where they can have the
largest impact on company performance. Nearly all critical roles at your company
should be filled by top talent. You should be ready to offer top-of-market
salaries for these key positions.

Build accountability into your organizational structures. You need to know when
someone is or is not succeeding in their role. Having the wrong structures will
slow you down in knowing when teams and people are not succeeding. This often
comes up in committees where no one champions the decision-making process.

It is common to run A/B tests to develop your product. McCord suggests that you
can improve your organization's management practices and team structures by
developing a process to experiment, collect feedback and debate the results.

McCord's most stand-out recommendation is for you to encourage your people to
interview outside your company regularly. This serves two purposes, you get
information on how much the market is paying for each role and you get to retain
employees who share the vision you have for your company. You need to be ready
to counter offers for your most important roles. The goal of this recommendation
is to ensure you have the right people doing the right work.

## Culture

Culture is not having snacks in a kitchen, grabbing beers after work or
receiving the latest perk. Culture is the collection of values and practices by
which employees interact and derive benefits for themselves, each other and the
company.

A culture can be built around excellence. This can double as a perk since
working with high performing teammates is the best perk that an employee can ask
for.

Be thoughtful when considering cultural fit during the hiring process. McCord
points out that culture fit is a two way street: people can adapt to
organizations and organizations can adapt to people.

